README.md, before:

# Evolutionary Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament

A tournament of competing Prisoner's Dilemma strategies, for the attendees of AMSI Winter School 2023.

## The Game

The game is iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, with an uncertain length to prevent a collapse to the static game Nash equilibrium.

The payoff matrix is as follows:
|           | Cooperate | Defect |
|:---------:|:---------:|:------:|
| Cooperate | R,R       | S,T    |
| Defect    | T,S       | P,P    |

where T > R > P > S.
Further, 2R > T + S (both players always cooperating is better than alternating cooperating and defecting.
The game is played at least once, and after each game is played again with probability 𝛿.

For the duration of a single iterated game, algorithms will have access to all previous decisions by both players as part of that game, but not to any moves from any other games.
Algorithms will also be given the values or T, R, P, S, and 𝛿, in case they wish to make decisions on that basis.

By default, the game will run with T = 5, R = 3, P = 1, S = 0 and 𝛿 = 0.99.
That is, the payoff matrix will be as follows:
The payoff matrix is as follows:
|           | Cooperate | Defect |
|:---------:|:---------:|:------:|
| Cooperate | 3,3       | 0,5    |
| Defect    | 5,0       | 1,1    |

and the game will run for an average of 100 iterations.

To control for the random length of games, the total payoff of the iterated game will be divided by the number of iterations of the game.

### The Metagame

The tournament will run in an evolutionary manner, over several generations, where the abundance of each strategy in each generation is determined by the total payoff it achieved in previous generations.
In this way, the other strategies present will shift over time, and so the success of a strategy might change over time as its competition changes.

Each strategy will begin the tournament with the same number of individuals alive, and the total number of individuals will remain the same across each generation.
Every individual in a generation will play a game with every other individual in that generation, and will the payoff from each game will be summed to produce a total payoff.
The number of individuals of each strategy present in the next generation will be proportional to the total payoff acquired by all individuals of that strategy in the current generation.

## How to Compete

To compete, you must write a strategy and enter it to this GitHub repository.
Each strategy will be contained in a separate `.py` file in the `strategies` directory.
Either send me your GitHub account so that I can add you as a collaborator, send a pull request, or just send me your file on Slack and I can submit it on your behalf.

### Writing a Strategy File

A strategy file consists of three parts:
- A `name` variable, giving the name of your strategy, e.g. `Grim Trigger`. Be creative!
- An `owner` variable, giving your name, so we know who won.
- A `play` function, containing your algorithm.

#### The `play` Function

The `play` function is the heart of your strategy file.
It is called once for each iteration of the Prisoner's Dilemma game.
It must take seven arguments, and return either `True` or `False`.
`True` represents the choice to cooperate, and `False` the choice to defect.

The seven arguments, in order, are as follows:
- `p1_moves`:
	A list of your previous moves, using `True` to represent cooperate, and `False` to represent defect.
	In the first iteration of each game, this list will be an empty list `[]`.
- `p2_moves`:
	A list of your opponent's previous moves, as above.
- `T`:
	The temptation payoff, if you defect and your opponent cooperates.
- `R`:
	The reward payoff, if you both cooperate.
- `P`:
	The punishment payoff, if you both defect.
- `S`:
	The sucker payoff, if you cooperate and your opponent defects.
- `delta`:
	The probability of playing another game after this one.

Your function is under no obligation to make use of all, or even any, of these arguments, but they must all be in the function signature.

Commit message:

Add a note to the README that strategy files may contain other stuff.

README.md, after:

# Evolutionary Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament

A tournament of competing Prisoner's Dilemma strategies, for the attendees of AMSI Winter School 2023.

## The Game

The game is iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, with an uncertain length to prevent a collapse to the static game Nash equilibrium.

The payoff matrix is as follows:
|           | Cooperate | Defect |
|:---------:|:---------:|:------:|
| Cooperate | R,R       | S,T    |
| Defect    | T,S       | P,P    |

where T > R > P > S.
Further, 2R > T + S (both players always cooperating is better than alternating cooperating and defecting.
The game is played at least once, and after each game is played again with probability 𝛿.

For the duration of a single iterated game, algorithms will have access to all previous decisions by both players as part of that game, but not to any moves from any other games.
Algorithms will also be given the values or T, R, P, S, and 𝛿, in case they wish to make decisions on that basis.

By default, the game will run with T = 5, R = 3, P = 1, S = 0 and 𝛿 = 0.99.
That is, the payoff matrix will be as follows:
The payoff matrix is as follows:
|           | Cooperate | Defect |
|:---------:|:---------:|:------:|
| Cooperate | 3,3       | 0,5    |
| Defect    | 5,0       | 1,1    |

and the game will run for an average of 100 iterations.

To control for the random length of games, the total payoff of the iterated game will be divided by the number of iterations of the game.

### The Metagame

The tournament will run in an evolutionary manner, over several generations, where the abundance of each strategy in each generation is determined by the total payoff it achieved in previous generations.
In this way, the other strategies present will shift over time, and so the success of a strategy might change over time as its competition changes.

Each strategy will begin the tournament with the same number of individuals alive, and the total number of individuals will remain the same across each generation.
Every individual in a generation will play a game with every other individual in that generation, and will the payoff from each game will be summed to produce a total payoff.
The number of individuals of each strategy present in the next generation will be proportional to the total payoff acquired by all individuals of that strategy in the current generation.

## How to Compete

To compete, you must write a strategy and enter it to this GitHub repository.
Each strategy will be contained in a separate `.py` file in the `strategies` directory.
Either send me your GitHub account so that I can add you as a collaborator, send a pull request, or just send me your file on Slack and I can submit it on your behalf.

### Writing a Strategy File

A strategy file consists of three parts:
- A `name` variable, giving the name of your strategy, e.g. `Grim Trigger`. Be creative!
- An `owner` variable, giving your name, so we know who won.
- A `play` function, containing your algorithm.

Your strategy file may also contain anything else you wish: other variables, helper functions, imports, etc.
In particular, you may wish to `import random` to implement a mixed strategy.

#### The `play` Function

The `play` function is the heart of your strategy file.
It is called once for each iteration of the Prisoner's Dilemma game.
It must take seven arguments, and return either `True` or `False`.
`True` represents the choice to cooperate, and `False` the choice to defect.

The seven arguments, in order, are as follows:
- `p1_moves`:
	A list of your previous moves, using `True` to represent cooperate, and `False` to represent defect.
	In the first iteration of each game, this list will be an empty list `[]`.
- `p2_moves`:
	A list of your opponent's previous moves, as above.
- `T`:
	The temptation payoff, if you defect and your opponent cooperates.
- `R`:
	The reward payoff, if you both cooperate.
- `P`:
	The punishment payoff, if you both defect.
- `S`:
	The sucker payoff, if you cooperate and your opponent defects.
- `delta`:
	The probability of playing another game after this one.

Your function is under no obligation to make use of all, or even any, of these arguments, but they must all be in the function signature.
